# FILE-ENCRYPTION-AND-DECRYPTION-SOFTWARE-USING-JAVA
Security is the main concern in today’s digital world. Most of the things done by us and our organizations are in the form of digital format. Nowadays it is very common to use digital photographs and documents for many official and legal purposes and most of the time these documents are very critical and classified for the owner of that documents. Nowadays digital photographs are playing a very important role as evidence of any occurrences which can be used as major proof in our judiciary system. Even some digital information like blueprints of any project, and account log/transaction files are very important for both persons and enterprises. It will be very harmful for the organization and the persons if those classified documents get into the hands of any other unwanted person. Let’s assume a situation where a photograph is playing a vital role in giving a judgment on any judicial case. If that photograph is accidentally accessed by any accused and then tempered, in that case, the actual accused who actually may be associated with any illegal activities would be released due to insufficient proof. For preventing that tamper with that photograph, the handler should encrypt that photograph and only decrypt it when in front of the judge. So, for the security of the digital files, we need a system that can be able to encrypt that file and decrypt that file when the actual owner of that file needs to access that information. For that stated purpose, in our research paper, we have developed software using java that can encrypt files by using a key provided by the owner of the file. This system will filly change the internal bytes of the digital file provided by the owner and make that file unreadable in any traditional digital document reading software. Only those who have the key and the appropriate software developed can able to decrypt that encrypted file and read the content of the file.
